# first-tutorial-
lxy
mport random
def game1():#player will choose a number in a given range and the computer will generate a random number and size it.
    num = random.randint(1,100)
    attempts = 0  
    guess= 0
    while guess != num:
        guess = int(input("Guess a number: \n"))
        attempts += 1
        if guess == num:
            print('Correct! You used', attempts, 'attempts!')
            break
        elif guess < num:
            print ('Go higher!')
        else:
            print ('Go lower!')
def game2():#player have three choices and computers will generate an option at random. the rule is rock wins scissors,scissors wins paper,paper wins rock)
    hand=int(input("please make a selection: \n"))
    machinechoice=random.randint(1,3)
    if machinechoice == 1:#one optioin corresponds to three outcomes.
        print("machine makes rock")
        if hand == 1:
            print("draw")
        if hand == 2:
            print("you win")
        if hand == 3:
            print("you lose")
    elif machinechoice == 2:
        print("machine makes paper")
        if hand == 1:
            print("you lose")
        if hand == 2:
            print("draw")
        if hand == 3:
            print("you lose")    
    elif machinechoice  == 3:
        print("machine makes scissors")
        if hand == 1:
            print("you win")
        if hand == 2:
            print("you lose")
        if hand == 3:
            print("draw")
def game3():
    selection=int(input("1 or 2; 1 means head, 2 means tail\n"))#player have 2 choices and it's compared to a random number generated by a computer
    choose=random.randint(1,2)
    if selection == 1:
        print("head")
    if selection == 2:
        print("tail")
    if choose == 1 and selection==1:
        print("The guess is the same as the calculation")
    if choose ==1 and selection==2:
        print("unfortunately, you guess wrong")
    if choose == 2 and selection==1:
        print("unfotunately, you guess wrong")    
    if choose == 2 and selection==2:
        print("The guess is the same as the calculation")
""" 
The number 6 is set to be a dangerous number. 
if the random number is not 6, the game will continue. 
if it is 6, the game will end.
"""  
def game4():
    number=int(input("press enter to start\n") ) 
    while number != 6:
        number=random.randint(1,6)
        if number == 6:
            print("game over")
            break    
        else:
            print("survive for this row")
            input("press enter to start")
"""#add the numbers of the two dice and remaining 2.
player should choose even or odd at beginning.
if the answer is equal to palyer's selection, the player win, otherwise lose.
"""
def game5():
    dice1=random.randint(1,6)
    dice2=random.randint(1,6)
    player=int(input("choose odd or even"))
    if (dice1+dice2)%2==0 and player==1:
        print("the player choose the odd result but the computer generate even")
    if (dice1+dice2)%2!=0 and player==1:
        print("congratulation, the player's choice matches the computer's generation ")
    if (dice1+dice2)%2==0 and player==2:
        print("congratulation, the player's choice mathces the computer's generation3 ")
    if (dice1+dice2)%2!=0 and player==2:
        print("the payer choose the even result but the computer generate odd")            
def menuchoice():
    print('menu')
    print("1: game of guess")
    print("2: rock paper sissors")
    print("3: head or tail")
    print("4: Russian turntable")
    print("5: chohan")
    choice=int(input("please make a choice: \n"))
    if choice == 1:
        print("game of guess")
        game1()
    if choice == 2:
        print("rock paper scissors")
        game2()
    if choice == 3:
        print("head or tail")
        game3()
    if choice == 4:
        print("Russain turntable")
        game4()
    if choice == 5:
        print("chohan")
        game5()
menuchoice()
